= ruby-string-crypt

ruby-string-crypt is a backwards compatible implementation of
String#crypt for Ruby, so that the core String#crypt can be deprecated
and later removed.

String#crypt calls crypt(3) or crypt_r(3) for operating system-specific
password hashing.  In cases where neither crypt(3) nor crypt_r(3) is
available, a DES-crypt implementation is used. DES-crypt should be
considered insecure, and users are strongly recommended to switch to a
secure password hashing library such as bcrypt, scrypt, or argon2.

== Usage

  # Generate new password hash.
  # Salt is an operating system specific string.
  password_hash = "password".crypt(salt)

  # Check for matching password hash.
  # This is insecure as it is vulnerable to a timing attack.
  "password".crypt(password_hash) == password_hash

  # More secure method of checking for matching password hash
  Rack::Utils.secure_compare(password_hash, "password".crypt(password_hash))

== Installing the gem

  gem install string-crypt

If you want to have the library skip using crypt(3) or crypt_r(3) and
force the internal DES-crypt implementation:

  STRING_CRYPT_FORCE_MISSING=1 gem install string-crypt

== Running the tests

In the repository:

  rake test

This requires rake-compiler to compile the library, and minitest for
testing.

== Reporting issues/bugs

ruby-string-crypt uses GitHub Issues for tracking issues/bugs:

  https://github.com/jeremyevans/ruby-string-crypt/issues

== Contributing

The source code is on GitHub:

  https://github.com/jeremyevans/ruby-string-crypt

To get a copy:

  git clone git://github.com/jeremyevans/ruby-string-crypt.git

== Platforms Supported

Ruby 2.1+ is supported. This library does not currently offer
support for JRuby.

== Maintainer

Jeremy Evans <code@jeremyevans.net>
